# Thesis_topic_selection
The repository is home to the sample data and executions leveraged during my thesis work conducted during the summer of 2021. 

In order to proceed with the research with the topic for my thesis, I have selected a list of topics which are relevant to my interest domain and for which I can source data either through approved data access from the organization or through Open Access API's - Twitter (through Tweepy), Reddit (through PRAW).
The initial set of topics I proposed based on initial literature review, data sourcing and feasibility analysis were as follows: 

### 1.User response prediction in omni-channel advertising landscape
User response prediction (Predicting the propensity of a consumer to click on an online advertisement) is one of the oldest problems in the AdTech domain. But with increasing number of alternate screens and types of addressable mediums, marketers can often lose track of the opportunity to reach this user efficiently and effectively. 
Through this research we look to analyze and predict user response to digital ads based on cross-screen/ omni channel exposure while also looking to resolve the optimal frequency challenge for impression delivery. For this we will be leveraging private ad-serving data, the access to which has been approved by my current employer (MiQ digital India Pvt. Ltd.). We’ll further club this with linear and Advanced TV commercial outreach data as well as the social standing of the brand (gauged through open access social API’s - Reddit and Twitter). An aggregated and hashed sample to the data will be provided for reference. The NOC can also be viewed in the same GitHub repository as the sample dataset.
Using multiple supervised machine learning algorithms, I will evaluate and attempt to predict the probability of a targeted consumer based on contextual bounds and their cross-channel exposures with reasonable accuracy while also identifying key features contributing to the conversion.


### 2.Analysing the impact of creative attributes and contextual parameters on the responsivity towards a digital ad campaign.
The ad creative and the contextual setting in which an ad is placed play an integral role in impacting the chance of a user response towards any ad campaign. During the course of this research, we take a data driven approach to analyze the impact of creative attributes like dominant color, product placement, human/ celebrity presence, creative messaging, etc. and contextual parameters like site domain category, device type, supply type, etc. on the towards a user response on a digital impression.  
We will leverage Google’s Cloud Vision API (industry best) to extract image feature and club this with the ad serving and performance data (access granted by MiQ) to create a master data set which powers our interpretable models to see how the impact of the creative and the contextual parameters on user response for a digital ad campaign.
Eventually through multiple iterations, I’d look to identify the most apt model which is able to predict the user response to a digital ad based on the features derived from an image and the contextual settings the ad is served in. 
An aggregated sample will be provided for reference. I plan to train the model based on ad serving and the performance data for over 20 white labelled campaigns across categories like auto, travel, and education to train and test the model.


### 3.Predicting the audience/ ratings for TV programming using Social media sentiments and online user activity.
TV planning and measurement has come of age over the past decade and continues to develop. But TV buying is still fairly working using an antiquated model depending on past TRP and GRP ratings to drive bulk buying of commercial slots. This research topic explores ways to identify the audience volumes for an upcoming TV programming using online user interaction around similar content and social sentiments prevailing around the title while keeping an eye on the historic audience trends and engagements for similar programming.
In order to track audience volumes and composition for the different programming’s I’ll be leveraging the ACR glass level data used by MiQ to track activity on TV across 11 million households at a household level. We’ll further normalize this using the Nielsen’s panel rating for the different TV titles among Linear TV households. The TV consumption data will then be merged with online search data across entertainment blogs and similar domains using MiQ's custom search API. To track the social activity around certain titles s we’ll leverage open access social API's to track the volume and sentiment around specific programming’s.
The eventual aim of the research project would be to unearth any existing correlations between the audience for certain TV programming’s and the user activity online on social media around related content. This relationships can then be used to train models that can predict the audience volumes for different TV programming’s with reasonable accuracy based on which TV planners / media buyers can moderate spends for programming that offer the highest and most relevant reach.



